denoised results of the noisy masked volume Ωy and the
raw noisy image y, including their mean µm,µv, and co-
variance Σm, Σv. 2) The noise estimator gθ(·) that cal-
culates the Poisson-Gaussian noise parameters (α,σ 1,σ 2).
Since actual noise levels of denoised images may differ
from raw noisy inputs, Cramer Gaussian loss only serves as
a regularization to assist the denoiser in picking appropriate
noise levels. Namely, the adaptive re-visible loss also de-
termines the noise parameters for explicit and lossless per-
sonalized denoising. The training set D containsn training
images denoted asD ={yi}n
i=1, whereyi denotes theith
raw noisy image. The details of the proposed method are
presented in subsequent sections.
4.1. Motivation
The re-visible framework overcomes the information
loss in blindspot-driven methods. However, mean square
error as objective function cannot adapt to varying noise
levels, frequently resulting in residual noise in denoised im-
ages. Therefore, it is necessary to design an adaptive loss
that adjusts denoising intensities based on sensed noise lev-
els. For optimal noise removal, the adaptive loss should per-
sonalized denoising without noise residues, while ensuring
valuable signal lossless. Lossless denoising requires that the
adaptive loss is compatible with the re-visible framework.
For this purpose, we regard the masked and visible branches
as Gaussian processes and design an adaptive re-visible loss
that satisﬁes both personalized and lossless requirements.
4.2. Adaptive Re-Visible Loss
The goal of adaptive re-visible loss is to achieve opti-
mal noise removal while retaining lossless denoising. We
achieve this by re-considering the re-visible scheme from
Bayesian reasoning and developing a personalized noise re-
moval method that does not require an auxiliary branch for
noise estimation during inference.
First, we model p(z1|Ωy) as a multivariate Gaussian
which represents that the latent clean imagez1 is generated
from the masked noisy volume Ωy as follows:
z1∼N (z1|µm, Σm), (6)
where N (·|µm, Σm) denotes the multivariate Gaussian
distribution with meanµm and variance Σm.
For the masked branch, Eq. (2) incorporates extra noise
knowledge into the explicit corruption model, provided as
the likelihood p(y|z1) given a clean value. Therefore, the
marginal likelihood of the noisy training data can be con-
structed via the distribution of unobserved clean dataz1:
p(y1) =
∫
p(y|z1)p(z1|Ωy)dz1. (7)
As illustrated in Eq. (7), when only noisy training data
y are available, a known noise model is able to explicitly
predict the masked prior p(z1|Ωy). Speciﬁcally, for an
approximate Gaussian noise model, the covariance of two
mutually independent Gaussian convolutions is simply the
sum of the components [6]. Hence, the marginal likeli-
hoodp(y1) is calculated in closed form, allowing to obtain
the distribution of z1 by maximizing Eq. (7). According
to Eqs. (2) and (6) as well as the above analysis, the mean
and variance ofy1 become:
y1∼N (y1|µm, Σm +diag(α1µm) +σ1I). (8)
For the visible branch, we constructp(z2|y) as the genera-
tion of the latent clean image z2 from the raw noise image
y, which then becomes:
z2∼N (z2|µv, Σv), (9)
where the meanµv and variance Σv are directly generated
from the raw noise image y without gradient update. The
marginal likelihood for the visible branch via the distribu-
tion of unobserved clean dataz2 is then formulated as:
p(y2) =
∫
p(y|z2)p(z2|y)dz2. (10)
Similar to Eq. (8), the mean and variance ofy2 become:
y2∼N (y2|µv, Σv +diag(α2µv) +σ2I). (11)
The marginal likelihood p(y1) for the blind branch and
p(y2) for the visible branch are now available. The mean
and variance of z2 do not participate in backpropagation
due to identity mapping. However, maximizing only the
blind distribution p(z1|Ωy) via Eq. (7) has limited perfor-
mance. To improve the performance, the loss errors of the
visible branchp(z2|y) are incorporated into the mask gradi-
ent. The decorrelation of the two branches enhances visible
denoising without suppressing the masked results. Thus,
y1 and y2 are modeled as i.i.d., and a Gaussian mixture
is applied to boost their representation. Combining Eqs. (8)
and (11), an enhanced target distributiony is obtained while
retaining the independence of the two branches:
y∼
2∑
i=1
πi·N (yi|µyi, Σyi ), (12)
whereπi is a hyper-parameter for the degree of re-visible.
Besides, 0≤πi≤ 1 andπ1 +π2 = 1. Set the blind factor
π1 to 1/(1 +λ), the visible factorπ2 toλ/(1 +λ) andλ is
a growing constant. Then, Eq. (12) is reformulated as:
y∼N (y|µm +λµv
1 +λ , Σy1 +λ2Σy2
(1 +λ)2 ). (13)
To simplify notation, we usey∼N (y|µy, Σy) and denote
the clean target image asx. The mask meanµm is a lower