Blind2Sound: Self-Supervised Image Denoising without Residual Noise
Zejin Wang1,2 Jiazheng Liu1,3 Hao Zhai1,3 Hua Han1,3,*
1Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
2School of Artiﬁcial Intelligence, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences
3School of Future Technology, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences
Abstract
Self-supervised blind denoising for Poisson-Gaussian
noise remains a challenging task. Pseudo-supervised pairs
constructed from single noisy images re-corrupt the sig-
nal and degrade the performance. The visible blindspots
solve the information loss in masked inputs. However , with-
out explicitly noise sensing, mean square error as an ob-
jective function cannot adjust denoising intensities for dy-
namic noise levels, leading to noticeable residual noise. In
this paper , we propose Blind2Sound, a simple yet effective
approach to overcome residual noise in denoised images.
The proposed adaptive re-visible loss senses noise levels
and performs personalized denoising without noise residues
while retaining the signal lossless. The theoretical analysis
of intermediate medium gradients guarantees stable train-
ing, while the Cramer Gaussian loss acts as a regulariza-
tion to facilitate the accurate perception of noise levels and
improve the performance of the denoiser . Experiments on
synthetic and real-world datasets show the superior perfor-
mance of our method, especially for single-channel images.
The code is available in supplementary materials.
1. Introduction
Supervised image denoisers [34, 43, 44, 17, 4, 39, 41]
have demonstrated impressive and superior performance by
utilizing numerous noisy-clean pairs. Notably, several re-
searchers [34, 43, 44] pioneered the removal of additive
white Gaussian noise and achieved notable performance
gains. These denoisers [17, 4, 39, 41] can also eliminate
other noise patterns, especially signal-dependent noise in
the real world. However, acquiring a large amount of paired
data to train a denoiser can be costly and, in some cases,
such as CT and MRI, even impossible. Moreover, the per-
formance of these denoisers rapidly degrades once they en-
counter unknown noise patterns due to the inherent prior
embedded in the training data.
*Corresponding author
Noisy
NBR2NBR: 39.28 dB
Ground Truth N2C: 39.23 dB
Blind2Unblind: 39.89 dB
 Ours: 40.15 dB
Figure 1: Real-world image denoising on the SIDD val-
idation. Our approach performs thorough noise removal,
while Blind2Unblind has considerable noise artifacts.
To tackle the challenge of acquiring paired data, re-
searchers have conducted numerous studies [7, 40, 12,
37, 25, 22, 5] in two categories: data synthesis and self-
supervised denoisers. Data synthesis involves generating
paired data for supervised training via adding noise to
clean images. For instance, UPI [7] and CycleISP [40]
analyze the operations of the camera imaging pipeline on
signal-dependent noise and create an imaging framework
capable of generating arbitrary real image pairs in both
raw-RGB and sRGB space. Other researchers [12, 37]
synthesize noisy-clean image pairs for training using pre-
estimated noise parameters. However, while data synthe-
sis approaches are effective with limited speciﬁc data, their
poor generality limits their broader application.
Noise2Noise [25], a special case of supervised denois-
ing that uses corrupted image pairs, serves as the foun-
dation for self-supervised denoising. Self-supervised de-
noisers, which learn only from a single raw noise im-
age, have become the leading solution for denoising with-
out data collection limitations. Blindspot schemes, in-
cluding manual masking [22, 5] and blindspot networks
(BSN) [23, 37, 10, 9], enable single image denoising by as-
arXiv:2303.05183v2  [cs.CV]  14 Mar 2023