suming that the signal is context-dependent and the noise is
irrelevant. However, the information loss and sub-optimal
masking strategies degrade the upper bound of denoising
performance. Some works [38, 30, 31] introduce additional
noise to construct training data pairs. The pre-calibrated
noise level restricts their application, and the re-corruption
worsens the loss of valuable signals. NBR2NBR [20] sub-
samples low-resolution training pairs from single noisy im-
ages for supervised training. The surrounding pixel ap-
proximation results in over-smoothing and block artifacts.
FBI-Denoiser (FBI-D) [8] reimplements Gaussian estima-
tion [11] as tensor operations combined with Generalized
Anscombe Transformations (GAT) [3] to formulate Gaus-
sian loss. However, Gaussian loss without ﬁne-grained
constraints zooms noise estimation errors. AP-BSN [24]
breaks spatial correlation but remains in the scope of BSN.
Blind2Unblind [36] achieves lossless denoising using the
re-visible transition, but the greedy pixel-level ﬁtting with-
out noise sensing leads to sizable residual noise.
In this paper, we present a novel framework named
Blind2Sound for self-supervised blind denoising, which
achieves personalized denoising without noise residues
while ensuring signal lossless. The framework includes
an adaptive re-visible loss for lossless and personalized
denoising and a Cramer Gaussian loss as a regularization
to accurately sense noise knowledge. The framework as-
sumes that the masked and visible branches are two inde-
pendent generative processes, while denoising results fol-
lowing normal distributions and the respective noise fol-
lowing a Poisson-Gaussian distribution. This independence
ensures that the masked results do not suppress the visible
denoising. For optimal denoising, the adaptive loss adjusts
noise removal via noise levels, while compatible with the
lossless re-visible framework. The adaptive loss consists of
two branches and their noise parameters, and the masked
branch as an intermediate medium for gradient update. Due
to signal dependence, the bottleneck of the masked branch
greatly suppresses the accuracy of Poisson noise. Thus, the
weighted Poisson noises in the mixed marginal likelihood
is simpliﬁed to a single Poisson component. Moreover, the
Cramer Gaussian loss introduces ﬁne-grained noise knowl-
edge, including sub-block and cross-channel constraints, to
boost the estimation accuracy.
Our contribution can be summarized in three aspects:
1. The proposed self-supervised denoising framework
adjusts denoising intensities based on sensed noise lev-
els, achieving personalized denoising without residual
noise while the signal is lossless.
2. We provide theoretical analysis for adaptive re-visible
loss and the gradient of intermediate medium.
3. Our approach shows excellent performance on various
real-world datasets with dynamic noise patterns.
2. Related Work
Self-Supervised Blind Image Denoising Although
Noise2Noise [25] makes collecting paired data much eas-
ier, it remains impractical as it requires noisy image pairs
from the same source. Therefore, blindspot schemes such
as manual masking [22, 5] and blindspot networks [23, 10]
have been developed to achieve self-supervised denoising.
However, these schemes suffer from the loss of valuable
information, leading to severe artifacts. To address this
issue, several methods, such as Laine19 [23], DBSN [37],
FC-AIDE [10], BP-AIDE [9], and AP-BSN [24], have
been proposed to enhance BSN. However, these methods
either have poor performance or slow inference on Poisson-
Gaussian noise. FBI-D [8] proposes a fast and effective
blind image denoiser for Poisson-Gaussian noise, but its
noise estimator has low accuracy in sRGB space without
ﬁne-grained noise constrains. Besides, the post-processing
step can reinforce denoising errors accumulated in previous
steps. Blind2Unblind [36] overcomes these limitations and
achieves fast lossless denoising under blindspots. However,
implicit denoising without sensing noise levels is unable to
provide personalized noise removal for Poisson-Gaussian
noise, resulting in residual noise artifacts.
Noise Estimation Methods Current noise estimation
methods [26, 33, 11, 15, 27] are mainly designed for two
noise models: additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN) and
Poisson-Gaussian noise. For AWGN, a signal-independent
noise, once the noise variance is known, its distribution can
be determined. Previous methods [26, 33] for estimating
AWGN variance used low-rank patch selection and prin-
cipal component analysis. Recently, Chen et al . [11] ad-
dressed the bias issue for Gaussian parameter estimation
using statistical decomposition of eigenvalues. In contrast,
Poisson-Gaussian noise [15] is a mixture of Poisson and
Gaussian components and is often considered as source-
related noise in real-world scenarios. Foi et al. [15] intro-
duced the Poisson-Gaussian model and provided fully au-
tomated noise parameter estimation for a single noisy im-
age. More recently, Liu et al. [27] improved local mean and
noise variance estimation for selected low-rank patches.
3. Problem Setting and Preliminaries
3.1. Problem Formulation
Given a noisy observation y, our goal is to learn the
clean imagex and its noise parameters directly from a sin-
gle noisy image. We focus on Poisson-Gaussian noise [15],
which is common in real-world imaging sensors. The noise-
corrupted observationy can be described as follows:
y =αP +N, (1)